crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_0.jpg	PREFACE
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_1.jpg	IN 1874 I received " Lists of Chinese Characters in the Fonts
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_2.jpg	of the Presbyterian Mission Press," Shanghai. The " first
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_3.jpg	list " consists of 6,664 characters arranged. according to
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_4.jpg	radicals and strokes. All of these I wrote in a note book,
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_5.jpg	then with much labor put the name of each and its meaning
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_6.jpg	in the Romanized Colloquial alongside. The students who
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_7.jpg	were travelling with me knew quite a number of characters.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_8.jpg	Several had been teachers for half-a-dozen years and one was
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_9.jpg	a druggist. I believed drill even in their own language would
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_10.jpg	make them more ready and accurate. Accordingly each one
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_11.jpg	made a copy for immediate use as the work progressed.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_12.jpg	Soon the radicals became as familiar as the English alphabet
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_13.jpg	to Canadian boys. Every day 100 different characters were
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_14.jpg	written out, analyzed and committed to memory. One
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_15.jpg	thousand were repeated every night after worship. They
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_16.jpg	thus acquired such a knowledge of their written language
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_17.jpg	as Chinese teachers and graduates in North Formosa did not.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_18.jpg	possess. One who was unable to write a letter at the time
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_19.jpg	is this day an able Chinese scholar. As time rolled on other
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_20.jpg	students made copies from my original one. Thirty such were
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_21.jpg	burnt during the French troubles. Quite a number have been
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_22.jpg	This work was neither conceived nor prepared for that purpose,
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_23.jpg	still so anxious, and as they all declare it has been of great
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_24.jpg	assistance in the past, I now comply with their request.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_25.jpg	One of their number has carefully written a copy for the
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_26.jpg	printer and two went to Shanghai to see it through the Press.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_27.jpg	Out of the 6,664 not a few have been omitted (because not in
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_28.jpg	general use here) and others have been added, making in all
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_29.jpg	9,45l. The latter were gathered from the Bible, Chinese
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty2_crop_30.jpg	classics and a dictionary by Wells Williams, LL.D.,which
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_0.jpg	P. VAN DER LOON
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_1.jpg	6
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_2.jpg	setting four reals as the price at which the book could be sold.8 The full title,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_3.jpg	as given above, is not printed inside the frame enclosing the text but in the
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_4.jpg	right-hand, or inner, margin and seems to have been added at a later stage.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_5.jpg	The same applies to the two columns in the outer margin, which say :
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_6.jpg	"This book has not been made without authorization, but is published
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_7.jpg	with licence of the Bishop and the Governor. When we first came to Manila,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_8.jpg	we ordered a skilled craftsman to cut these blocks. Completed in the second
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_9.jpg	month of spring in the year of our Lord 1593."
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_10.jpg	We may comment that the Bishop of Manila, Domingo de Salazar, had
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_11.jpg	left his see in June 1591 and gone to Spain. It is not clear whether the licence
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_12.jpg	was issued before his departure or by the Vicar-General afterwards. The
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_13.jpg	words "when we first came to Manila" suggest that the cutting of the blocks
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_14.jpg	was begun long before March 1593, the date when the Shih-lu was pub-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_15.jpg	lished. This is borne out by the postface on 62a (see text figure), contrasting
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_16.jpg	with the rest of the book by the irregular number of characters in each
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_17.jpg	column (19 instead of 20) and its different inking. Moreover, the originally
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_18.jpg	single rules between the columns are duplicated and overlap, some even
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_19.jpg	crossing the characters, which means that for this page two separate blocks
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_20.jpg	were used, the impressions of which are "out of register". This postface
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_21.jpg	reads as follows:
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_22.jpg	"The word of God has been handed down for a long time, but there was
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_23.jpg	nobody who could find its essential meaning and authentic tradition. I, Juan,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_24.jpg	a priest of this church, have transmitted the Scriptures and analysed them in
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_25.jpg	Chinese, editing several chapters which I have had cut on woodblocks in
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_26.jpg	order to increase their circulation, and hoping that those who join our faith
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_27.jpg	will thoroughly study the meaning of this book and follow the true religion,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_28.jpg	as when the clouds have scattered and one sees the blue sky or when the
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_29.jpg	thornbush is cleared away and one follows the open road. But having only
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_30.jpg	written a few chapters without completing the rest of the work, I am now
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_31.jpg	entrusted with a political mission and shall wait till next year before I go into
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_32.jpg	further detail and compose the remainder, which I shall add to the book so as
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_34.jpg	to form the complete text of the Veritable record'. For the time being I have
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_35.jpg	written this by way of preface."
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_36.jpg	The circumstances of Cobo's mission are well known.9 He had been
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_37.jpg	appointed ambassador to Japan and left Manila at the end of June 1592.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_38.jpg	After having been received by Hideyoshi, he set sail for home in November
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_39.jpg	of the same year, but was apparently shipwrecked and lost.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_40.jpg	Summing up the evidence available, we find that the cutting of the blocks
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_41.jpg	Cuellar was already secretary to the Governor on 12 January 1591 : the latest
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_42.jpg	document attested by him as notary which I know of is dated 28 April 1594.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_43.jpg	Henri Bernard, "Les debuts des relations diplomatiques entre le Japon et les
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_1_crop_44.jpg	Espagnols des lles Philippines (1571-1594)", Monumenta Nipponica 1, 1938, 122-126.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_0.jpg	P. YAN DER LUUN
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_1.jpg	of authorship. It is most unlikely that the two parts were written by the same
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_2.jpg	person. To all appearance the Doctrina originally ended with the catechism,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_3.jpg	exactly like the Doctrina in Spanish and Tagalog, whereas the lengthy
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_4.jpg	explanation of the rosary and the appended disciplinary rules are by another
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_5.jpg	hand. Within this second part, the act of contrition is again incongruous
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_6.jpg	and seems to have been an independent composition; related in style to the
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_7.jpg	first part.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_8.jpg	Who were the authors? The titlepage states that the book was composed
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_9.jpg	by the Dominican priests who were working among the Sangleys but does
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_10.jpg	not give further details. Since the translation of this basic manual was one of
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_11.jpg	the first activities of missionaries to any part of the world, attention has been
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_12.jpg	concentrated on the earliest period of the Dominican mission to the Chinese,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_13.jpg	between 1587 and 1595. The most detailed study of the problem hitherto
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_14.jpg	published concludes from the external evidence that, of the four friars coming
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_15.jpg	into consideration, Miguel de Benavides should be regarded as the original
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_16.jpg	author; that his work was corrected, perhaps substantially, by Juan Cobo;
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_17.jpg	and that the final editing was done by Domingo de Nieva and Juan Mal-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_18.jpg	donado de San Pedro Martir.14 In studying the problem afresh we should
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_19.jpg	bear in mind the testimony offered by the text itself and examine the lin-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_20.jpg	guistic competence of these four priests.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_21.jpg	Miguel de Benavides, who was born in 1552 and died in 1605 as Arch-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_22.jpg	bishop of Manila, was one of the Dominicans who arrived in Manila in 1587.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_23.jpg	Juan Cobo came a year later and consequently for some time spoke Chinese
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_24.jpg	less well than Benavides. "Father fray Miguel was catechizing them and
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_25.jpg	preaching in their Chinese language, and made a Doctrina in their language.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_26.jpg	I myself did not yet know the language, but the Lord has been served, so
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_27.jpg	that in a short time I had some success", as he reports on his first year in the
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_28.jpg	letter of July 1589 to friends in Mexico. The nature of the Doctrina which
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_29.jpg	Benavides had prepared is not clear, but one may strongly doubt whether,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_30.jpg	after less than two years of study, he could have written a Chinese text
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_31.jpg	without assistance. Cobo's own progress sounds impressive. He had learned
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_32.jpg	to speak the language, but also attempted to read a number of Chinese books,
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_33.jpg	which he describes in some detail in his letter. With the help of his neigh-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_34.jpg	bours he had even begun to translate one of these, a guidebook of China.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_35.jpg	Trying to dispel some misconceptions about the tens of thousands of charac-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_36.jpg	ters which bewilder the outsider, he writes: "In actual fact the ordinary signs
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_37.jpg	which they commonly use are not so difficult that they cannot be reduced to
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_38.jpg	vocabularies. These we are already making, so that the people who come after
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_39.jpg	Despite the difficulty of the characters and although the Chinese coming to
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_40.jpg	Manila were the scum of the earth, there were very few illiterates among them :
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_2_crop_41.jpg	14 Gayo, Doctrina christiana, pp. 6o-69.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_0.jpg	THE MANILA INCUNABULA AND EARLY HOKKIEN STUDIES
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_1.jpg	17
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_2.jpg	presence was so embarrassing for her, as the chronicler puts it - they had to
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_3.jpg	go to an open hut on the city wall, where they suffered abuse from soldiers
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_4.jpg	and were exposed to the weather, but later were given shelter in the house of a
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_5.jpg	rich sea captain who had been to Manila. After some time a charge of
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_6.jpg	espionage and bribery was brought against the two priests, and a letter was
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_7.jpg	produced in court in support of this accusation. Unable to prove their
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_8.jpg	innocence, Benavides one day on his way to the tribunal met a stranger who
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_9.jpg	advised him to ask to see the letter, so that he could plead that it was not
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_10.jpg	signed. This move was successful, but the advantage gained was nearly lost
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_11.jpg	when the court became suspicious of a petition which Benavides had sub-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_12.jpg	mitted, as it was not believed that he could have written it himself. "Actually
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_13.jpg	he could not have done it alone if the Lord had not helped him very specially.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_14.jpg	because although he knew some commoner characters he could not have
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_15.jpg	known the uncommon ones which were needed in such a special and unusual
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_16.jpg	transaction, let alone those required for the words and expressions which in
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_17.jpg	the higher places are used in China and with which he was not acquainted."
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_18.jpg	He insisted however that no Chinese had helped him. In order to resolve all
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_19.jpg	doubts he was ordered to write another petition on the spot. The friar did not
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_20.jpg	lose his confidence, but rather than thinking about what he should write
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_21.jpg	began slowly and with devotion to say the rosary, and when he had finished
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_22.jpg	with this promptly wrote down the petition, to the astonishment of those
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_23.jpg	present. God had helped him to do much more than what he knew by him-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_24.jpg	self, and had also inspired him to absorb some characters which he had seen
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_25.jpg	on a note held by a boy in the street and which came in useful for the
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_26.jpg	petition. As a result Benavides and Castro were acquitted, but being
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_27.jpg	foreigners had to leave the country.20
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_28.jpg	The author of this hagiographic account is the Dominican Diego
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_29.jpg	Aduarte, who himself first arrived in Manila in 1595 and later, as pro-
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_30.jpg	curator of his province, spent many years in Spain. His book was not
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_31.jpg	published until 1640, four years after his death, but while in Spain he had
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_32.jpg	lent the unfinished manuscript to the Dominican historian Juan Lopez.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_33.jpg	The story as told by the latter differs in some significant details, the most
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_34.jpg	important of which is that Benavides in writing the first letter had in fact
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_35.jpg	been helped by a Chinese friend.20a Was Aduarte's account embellished
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_36.jpg	afterwards? It is certainly not surprising that Benavides was unable to write
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_37.jpg	in the documentary style, but in view of the discrepancy between the two
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_38.jpg	versions one wonders whether he had reached fluency even in written
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_39.jpg	Hokkien, as used in the first. part of the Doctrina. Moreover, Bishop
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_40.jpg	Salazar says only of Cobo that he knew characters.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_41.jpg	Having returned to Manila in March 1591, Benavides left again in June
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_42.jpg	20 Aduarte, Historia 1, 118-121.
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_43.jpg	20 Juan Lopez, Quinta parte de la historia de Santo Domingo, y de su orden de
crop_img/en_Post-WW2_3_crop_44.jpg	Predicadores, Valladolid 1621, fol. 253-255.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_0.jpg	INTRODUCTION.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_1.jpg	VII.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_2.jpg	Great difficulty has been experienced in getting the proper
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_3.jpg	Chinese characters to represent all the sounds used in this book. For
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_4.jpg	some there are no characters, and accordingly for these I have had to
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_5.jpg	go far afield, and borrow as I could. In some cases this has been to-
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_6.jpg	lerably satisfactory, and in others it has been quite the reverse. In
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_7.jpg	explanation of the small rings used with the Chinese characters, I may
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_8.jpg	say, that when a is attached to one it must be read with its colloquial
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_9.jpg	character has two : it means that a character of proper sound but en-
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_10.jpg	tirely different meaning has been borrowed for the occasion.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_11.jpg	In the preparation of this Dictionary I have been glad to take
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_12.jpg	advantage of every assistance that was possibly available. I am chiefly
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_13.jpg	indebted however to the following, viz. Rev. Dr. Douglas' Chinese
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_14.jpg	and English Dictionary of the Amoy Colloquial, Dr. Williams' Chinese
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_15.jpg	Dictionary, as well as his English and Chinese Vocabulary, Rev J.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_16.jpg	Doolittle's Vocabulary and Hand book of the Chinese language, and an
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_17.jpg	English and Chinese Dictionray by Tam Tat Hin, I desire heartily
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_18.jpg	to acknowledge my obligations to these authors for the assistance they
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_19.jpg	have rendered to me in many ways. To Dr. Williams special thanks
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_20.jpg	are due, as several articles in my dictionary have been copied from his.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_21.jpg	J. MACGOWAN.
crop_img/en_Qing_Dynasty1_crop_22.jpg	Amoy, August 11th,1883